---
title: AI is taking your job
date: 2024-11-21
description:
  'AI is changing how hiring works, and that makes in person connections even
  more important.'
categories:
  - career
meta:
  keywords:
    - conferences
    - ai
    - connection
    - job search
    - hiring
    - meetups
    - human
translations:
  - language: Êó•Êú¨Ë™û
    link: https://zenn.dev/mahata/articles/ai-is-taking-your-job
    author:
      name: Yasunori Mahata
      link: https://zenn.dev/mahata
  - language: Vietnamese
    link: https://7hv-blog.vercel.app/blogs/ai-is-taking-your-job
    author:
      name: Thu Thi Bich Vu
      link: https://7hv-blog.vercel.app/about
  - language: ÌïúÍµ≠Ïñ¥
    link: https://chapdo.vercel.app/post/25-02-10
    author: 
      name: Serim Min
      link: https://github.com/anonymousRecords
bannerCloudinaryId: unsplash/photo-1506869640319-fe1a24fd76dc
bannerAlt: Silhouette photo of six persons on top of mountain
bannerCredit: Photo by [Chang
  Duong](https://unsplash.com/photos/silhouette-photo-of-six-persons-on-top-of-mountain-Sj0iMtq_Z4w)
---

_... but not how you think_

Someone I know was hiring for a position and received a flood of applications.
They had one remote interview with a person who was clearly using ChatGPT to
answer questions and they shut down the interview immediately. A few days later
they joined a call for another interview for the same position and it was the
same person as before, under a completely different name with a completely
different resume.

This person had submitted multiple AI-generated resumes to the job posting ü§¶‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è

Applying for a job now often means competing against a flood of AI-generated
resumes and hoping your application makes it past automated filters. And on the
flip side, hiring managers face the Herculean task of finding real candidates
among piles of AI-crafted applications. And they're increasingly using AI to do
this üò¨

That's the kind of competition we're dealing with. And yet, a personal
connection‚Äîa real conversation‚Äîcuts through all of that.

Digital interactions dominate our lives, but I'm constantly reminded of the
unique power of in-person connections. Every job I've had since graduating from
BYU came through personal relationships‚Äîeither someone recommending me or me
knowing the right person at the right time. These connections aren't just
helpful; they've been game-changers in my career.

## Why In-Person Connections Matter More Than Ever

When I landed a job at PayPal, it wasn't because I aced some online application
or had a perfect LinkedIn profile. It was because of a relationship I'd built
with someone at a conference. I wasn't even looking to move to California, but
that connection opened the door to a rare remote position at the company.

Fast-forward to today: post-COVID and in the era of AI, these human connections
are even more critical.

Sure, you can build relationships online. You can contribute to open-source
projects, network through mutual connections, or attend virtual meetups. I've
done all of these things and they definitely help. Keep doing it. But nothing
beats sitting down with someone, looking them in the eye, and sharing a
handshake or a laugh.

There are people I know online that I don't vibe with. Every single time when I
meet them in-person that relationship gets better (even if I still don't really
vibe with them after the fact).

It's one of the reasons I'm so passionate about attending and organizing
conferences and meetups. I've seen it over and over again: people come for the
talks, but they leave with new friends, collaborators, mentors, and sometimes
jobs (maybe not today, but definitely in the future).

## What We're Doing at Epic Web Conf and Camp

At Epic Web Conf 2024 (and previously at Remix Conf), we structured the schedule
to maximize those moments of connection. Single track, extended breaks, long
lunches, and fun activities were all deliberate choices. The talks inspire and
teach, but **the real value** comes from the conversations in the hallways, over
drinks, or during a group activity.

https://youtu.be/cdCsQpcT5WY

Epic Web Camp takes that even further. Imagine 30 people spending a few days
together in the Utah mountains, with hotel-style accommodations, outdoor
adventures, and plenty of downtime to chat. Last year, we did speed networking,
high ropes courses, and impromptu talks. Next year, we're making it even
better‚Äîmore time to relax, connect, and build meaningful relationships with more
people.

https://youtu.be/RkvizvSGmMY

## The Human Advantage Over AI

Here's the thing: AI can automate a lot of things, but it can't replicate human
relationships. When you meet someone in person‚Äîeven just once‚Äîit strengthens
every future interaction you'll have with them, online or otherwise. Those
connections lead to better work, new ideas, and a richer life.

If you're looking for ways to build these kinds of relationships, I'd love for
you to join us at [Epic Web Conf](https://www.epicweb.dev/conf) in March 2025 or
[Epic Web Camp](https://www.epicweb.dev/camp) in September 2025. Tickets for the
conference are available now, and camp tickets will open later in the year.

The world is becoming more digital by the day, but that only makes our human
connections more valuable. Let's make them count. I can't wait to meet you.
