---
title: Establishing Your Personal Brand With Cassidy Williams
date: null
description:
  Cassidy Williams talks about the power that comes with establishing your
  personal brand.
meta:
  keywords:
guest:
  name: Cassidy Williams
  image: https://res.cloudinary.com/kentcdodds-com/image/upload/v1625034089/kentcdodds.com/content/podcast/01/02-cassidy-williams/cassidy-williams.png
  twitter: https://twitter.com/cassidoo?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor)
  github: https://github.com/cassidoo
  website: https://cassidoo.co/
simpleCastId: 03bf57d4-e3d6-4922-88cb-5d23b713104a
---

Cassidy Williams is an engineer at Codepen. In the last five years, Cassidy has
worked for five companies. She had left each on her terms as she learned through
experience what she wanted and didn't want. Figuring out what you like and what
you don't like is critical for ending up somewhere that you're happy with,
Cassidy calls this establishing your personal brand. The term "personal brand"
has negative connotations to it, it seems unauthentic, but really what it means
is figuring out who you are and making that public, it's as authentic as you
make it.

Kent challenges you to take five minutes and write down what you like and what
you don't like. Afterward, reflect on that list and ask yourself if where you're
at now lines up, if it doesn't dig deeper into figuring out how to make the
necessary changes for your life to align more with your likes and dislikes.

---

## Resources

- [Boundaries](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0310351804)

## Transcript

**Kent C. Dodds:** Hello friends, it is your friend Kent C. Dodds and I am
joined by my friend Cassidy Williams. Say hi Cassidy.

**Cassidy Williams:** Hi there.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Cassidy is just this wonderful person that if you're not
following on Twitter already, you ought to otherwise you may never know what Pi
time is, but I'm super excited to be joined by Cassidy. She's been a... I've
been following you Cassidy on Twitter for a couple of years now I think, and
it's just been a joy. I'm excited to talk with you about some of your unique
interests as well as your personal career and kind of some of your goals and how
that can be applied to our lives as well. Yeah, before we get into that,
Cassidy, could you give us a little intro to yourself?

**Cassidy Williams:** Sure, so hello again. I'm an engineer at CodePen and if
you don't know what CodePen is, you should get on CodePen. We are a place where
you can kind of just experiment with HTML, CSS and JavaScript as well as other
various libraries and things and build a portfolio and play around with web
coding. I really like working there. I actually work from home for CodePen,
which is very fun and something that I hadn't done at a previous job before.
Outside of work I build keyboards. I like to laser cut things and I like to play
a lot of music too.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Music, huh? I've noticed that lots of engineers are pretty
into music, which I find kind of interesting. I was at a conference a couple of
weeks ago and this guy comes up to me, because I had mentioned in our workshop
that I sing choir in college, and he came up to me later, he's like, yeah, I
sing opera, and I was like wow, that's super cool.

**Cassidy Williams:** That's awesome.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. I know a lot of people who play guitar and other
instruments and things and I just think that's pretty cool. What aspect of music
are you into?

**Cassidy Williams:** Playing instruments. My husband and I, we both play a few
different things and we're in the Seattle Video Game Orchestra, and so in that
orchestra we play Zelda, Mario, Skyrim, all kinds of fun nerdy music with them.
We also like to play on our own. He actually majored in piano performance before
he did computer stuff.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Wow, that's awesome.

**Cassidy Williams:** Yeah. I play, my main two are trumpet and guitar, but then
I also play euphonium and then he's on piano and violin, and then we've also got
a ukulele and a [metalica 00:02:35] and a bass. We have way too many instruments
under one roof, but it's also really fun to kind of fiddle around us as we
experiment with stuff.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Wow, that's very cool. That's amazing. Majoring in music is
always something like I... since I was in choir in college, I interacted with a
lot of music majors [inaudible 00:02:55]. That's incredible that you can even
get into programs like that.

**Cassidy Williams:** Yeah. Oh man. I was in band in college just like the
concert bands and stuff for fun, and it got intense for some of the music majors
when they started talking about a theory and everything, and I was like, you
know, this is... I am very happy that you people have this passion. I really
like doing it not as a career, and I'm fine with that.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, and you know, that's the cool thing too is that lots of
these things, you don't have to go into them professionally to enjoy them.

**Cassidy Williams:** Right.

**Kent C. Dodds:** I would say the same applies to coding, and it's actually
interesting that... just makes me think of really quick. I have been doing some
book writing as well, some fantasy novel writing-

**Cassidy Williams:** Cool.

**Kent C. Dodds:** ...and often when... yeah, it's kind of fun. When you tell
people that you're writing a book, their first question is, oh, when are you
going to be published? Are you published yet?

**Cassidy Williams:** Right.

**Kent C. Dodds:** It's kind of like, we don't ask that of people who are just
playing around on the basketball court. Like, when are you going to go to the
NBA? You know, like-

**Cassidy Williams:** Right.

**Kent C. Dodds:** It's interesting that there are so many wonderful things that
we can enjoy in this world, and you don't have to have plans to go be
professional to enjoy those things.

**Cassidy Williams:** Right, yeah.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So-

**Cassidy Williams:** I totally agree, and that's one of the things that as we
start transitioning into career talk, that's one of the things that I've really
been trying to focus on in my career, is how can I kind of do these hobbies and
afford to do hobbies and stuff and still have the time to do a full time job and
do both and learn a bunch of new things without having to be professional at
these new things.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, absolutely. Sometimes like the things that you enjoy
the most, you hope are the things that you can do most of the time, right, and
the thing that you do most of the time is, you know, unless you have just tons
of money hanging out like doing nothing, but you're probably going to be working
most of the time, and so if you can find something where I enjoy doing this most
of the time, but I have to work for money, so why don't I do that and make money
at the same time. You're kind of double-dipping there, I guess, and so like
finding a way to turn the thing that you enjoy into something that you can make
money doing. I guess that's the real trick that we're all trying to figure out.

**Cassidy Williams:** Yeah, and getting that passive income going so you can
have that working for you too.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, exactly. Let's hear a little bit about your experience
[Cassie 00:05:28]. Where have you come from? How have you been able to
accomplish some of this idea in your life?

**Cassidy Williams:** Oh man. I have had a bunch of different jobs and I've been
bouncing around a lot, and that's not because I'm trying to brag about my very
long resume. That's just because I can't seem to stay still in one spot. Before
CodePen I worked at Amazon for a little bit and Amazon was an interesting
experience that taught me that I do not like large companies and that's nothing
against Amazon. It's just something that I really realized about myself, and for
those who work there, I'm happy for you. My sister works there and plenty of
friends who work there, but it wasn't my cup of tea, and so that taught me that,
and then before that I worked at a creative agency here in Seattle which was
awesome, and then it was bought and unfortunately that creative agency is no
more, so-

**Kent C. Dodds:** Oh no.

**Cassidy Williams:** Yeah. It was great while it lasted, but that was a really
fun place because that kind of exposed me to a lot of different technologies I
hadn't experienced before, and then that they also had a laser cutter in the
office which totally sparked an interest in me in that because now I have one in
my garage, and also just kind of getting to talk with people across the spectrum
that I wouldn't have normally gotten to talk to in terms of technical writers
for applications for television and things like that, and then seeing how
different industries work because it's an agency that work with a bunch of
different groups, and so before that, that was all in Seattle. Before that I
lived in New York City and in New York City I worked at Clarifai, which is an
artificial intelligence startup there, and yeah-

**Kent C. Dodds:** Interesting. You've worked at some pretty interesting places.

**Cassidy Williams:** Lots of variety. Clarifai is a cool place. They're still
kicking and doing a lot of interesting things with image recognition. What's
really cool is they have an API where you can take a picture of something and
it'll just return tags for that image, and so if I took a picture of my computer
right now, it would say technology, computer, business, keyboard and things like
that, and so you can use that to enhance a search engine or something like that.
Then before that my first job out of school was at Venmo and Venmo was... it was
actually pretty early on at Venmo, PayPal was just buying them when I joined,
and so it was exciting because it was right at the beginning of an acquisition
and so lots of changes happens, like eBay split from PayPal while I was there
and the company was going through all of these just growth things where they
started to realize, oh we need to make money now because it's [inaudible
00:08:21], you know, as a lot of startups start to realize. That's kind of where
it all started, and at Venmo and Clarifai I did more dev evangelism. I did a
combination of dev evangelism and coding which involved speaking at a lot of
conferences and events for work, which was a blast. I really liked it, but I was
traveling constantly which, you know, there're pros and cons to that. It was
great as I got to make friends all over the place and really see a lot of the
country on the world even, but the cons of that were, I never wanted to travel
for vacation or really just... I just wanted to be home all the time because I
was traveling so much and so now I go to conferences and stuff on my own not for
work, which is a lot more fun because I can kind of more pick and choose the
events that I speak at and speak-

**Kent C. Dodds:** And the topics and everything too.

**Cassidy Williams:** Right, exactly. Speak more about what I want rather than
doing a sales pitch of sorts.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Wow. You've had an interesting history. I don't know if
you're aware, but I was at PayPal up until a couple months ago-

**Cassidy Williams:** I was going to say, I wasn't sure if you were still at
PayPal or if you had left recently.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. I went full-time educator in February-

**Cassidy Williams:** Nice.

**Kent C. Dodds:** ...and yeah, it's been a lot of fun, but PayPal is just an
amazing company. I am similar, I worked at a company that was very, very large
and I was like, yes, I'm not a large company person and PayPal didn't really
feel like a large company for me. Maybe it was because I worked remote, but they
was a fantastic company and Venmo, the people that I interacted with from Venmo
were always just super cool, so that was-

**Cassidy Williams:** The [inaudible 00:10:08] was fantastic. I sometimes miss
it just because it was such kind of a silly but fun culture because it was a
really young company when they were bought, I think the average age was maybe 26
at the company. Like it was a very young company. On one hand it needed PayPal
to kind of become mature as an organization literally, but at the same time it
was a really fun place to go to right after college.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, sure. You were interacting with people who are in a
pretty similar stage of life as you were.

**Cassidy Williams:** Right, exactly.

**Kent C. Dodds:** ...and there're pros and cons to that, but you were able to
make some cool friends I imagine which is cool.

**Cassidy Williams:** Yeah. People who I've stayed friends with to this day
which is, you know, that's what matters.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. That's cool. Relationships are really where the
happiness comes from in life. Cool. Thanks for sharing your career journey with
us. It sounds like you mentioned that you did jump around a little bit and when
was it that you... so it sounds like the first couple of jobs to you were
actually still in school, is that right?

**Cassidy Williams:** No, they were just right out after school.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Oh, I see.

**Cassidy Williams:** I graduated in 2014 and so if you could do the math, I
have had five jobs in five years.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. Actually, same story. I graduated in 2014 as well and
this is my fifth job. I guess I'm self-employed now, but yeah, it's kind of fun.

**Cassidy Williams:** Yeah, cool.

**Kent C. Dodds:** It sounds like the... part of the reason that you made these
transitions wasn't necessarily that like, you weren't let go from these
opportunities. You found other opportunities that interested you. What was kind
of the thought process that you were going through over these last few years to
kind of identify the places where you would be happier and contribute more in
the way that you wanted to contribute?

**Cassidy Williams:** Right. It was definitely kind of a mindset change over
time because at Venmo I was very gung-ho, I was just like I'm going to climb
this career ladder to success, and so I took on every single opportunity. I said
yes to way to many things honestly because I was determined to just be the boss
somewhere and I wanted to be as high up as possible. There are pros and cons to
that. I definitely burnt out pretty hard because I was taking on way too much.
There was point where I was speaking at events for 14 days straight. I spoke at
an event every single day.

**Kent C. Dodds:** What?

**Cassidy Williams:** Yeah, and it was-

**Kent C. Dodds:** Oh, my goodness.

**Cassidy Williams:** It was a bad choice? I don't recommend that. I was just
very determined and then Clarifai kind of came along where the founder was kind
of just pinging me a lot saying like, "Hey, we'd really like you on board." And
I was happy where I was, and eventually I went and grabbed coffee with him and
it kind of just turned into an interview that was unintentional and then it just
kind of happened. In talking to him, it made me realize that even though I was
taking on a lot of different things, my growth was starting to plateau a little
bit, and by joining this very young startup, there were only like 15 or 16
people at the time, I would be able to take on a lot more responsibilities and
kind of improve my resume and kind of just get to that next step in my career,
and so that kind of led to that switch and it was actually very good timing
because unfortunately as with acquisition certain things get cut from small
companies. The Venmo API was killed I think two weeks after I left and so it
worked out in that sense. At clarify again, I was traveling a ton and with that
I was leading a dev role there and it was a blast. I really liked working there.
My sister worked there too which is great, and two or three of some of my best
friends worked there and are still really good friends with me today. It was a
great experience, but there came a point where it was kind of less career, I
need to grow and do the best thing that I can and more. I don't really want to
live in New York anymore. New York was a great city to live in, but there came a
point where I was just like, I knew I wasn't a good fit with the culture there.
I kind of wanted to have more time for hobbies and have the space for hobbies.
There's not a lot of space in New York and it's a very fast paced city where it
felt like a lot of the time it was, you work a lot and then you kind of either
go to the bars or you hang out with friends at a certain way and then you sleep,
and then it's just kind of that constant loop, and there wasn't a lot of just
downtime there. That might've been in the jobs that I specifically had, but
that's just what I found while I was there, and so that led to the switch to
Seattle and then I kind of found the creative agency. It was called L4 Digital.
I kind of found it randomly when I was just looking up best companies to work
for in Seattle.

**Kent C. Dodds:** That's pretty random.

**Cassidy Williams:** Because I didn't have as much of a network in Seattle and
so I was kind of like, I'll just Google, start applying and then I'll reach out
to friends I know who might be able to point me in a good direction and when I
ended up joining L4 it kind of started out where I was like, yeah, they are on
this list so they've got to be good, but then as I worked there, they really
were... like they deserved to be on that list of best companies to work for in
Seattle. They were really, really cool culture where if you told someone, this
is kind of my goal, they would figure out a way for you to do it. Where I was
saying I want to get more into management and manage more engineers. Within like
three months I was managing six engineers and-

**Kent C. Dodds:** Wow. That's awesome.

**Cassidy Williams:** Yeah, and when I said I wanted to be a tech lead on a
project, within a month I was a tech lead on two different projects. It was
great. They really were awesome at just finding opportunities for people to help
them grow and listening and that sort of thing which was great for me because it
kind of helped me figure out things that I liked and things I didn't like. I
started to realize I needed to either pick dev or pick management, doing both is
a lot of time. It was still a great experience and then they were bought and
unfortunately things started to change rapidly and I left. That led me to start
looking up new places to work and so my sister and my husband were both working
at Amazon at that point and so I was just like, oh well then I could interview
at Amazon and so I started interviewing there and then CodePen had reached out
to me at that point too and it was tough because on one hand Amazon had the big
salary, the really big title and a lot of big company perks that I hadn't really
experienced because most of the companies I've worked for were smaller with the
exception of Venmo and some PayPal things. That was appealing but then CodePen,
I liked the idea of being able to work from home and have that core work life
balance and also the people at CodePen and are just really awesome.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, legit.

**Cassidy Williams:** It was a tough decision and ultimately I was just like,
you know what, I'm going to go for the very, very different experience of Amazon
and see how that goes and we'll see what happens. Honestly the whole title and
the cash appealed to me and it taught me a very harsh lesson that title and cash
does not bring you happiness and I kind of realized within two weeks that it was
not a great fit and I still worked hard. I still tried to make it work and
honestly it just... it wasn't worth the politics of a large company and
realizing that there's a lot of work that you want to get done but you can't get
done because this person doesn't like this team so you need to be able to go
around them by doing this. It was getting frustrating for me to deal with that
and not be able to just get my work done and, yeah, but I guess politics could
really summarize the reason why I wasn't a huge fan of working there and so
there came a point where I was just like, you know what, I'm done. I've been
working till 10:00 PM some nights, this is not a good fit and so I-

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, that wasn't really mesh with your goal that you had
when you were in New York of having more personal hobby time.

**Cassidy Williams:** Exactly. Yeah and so I reached back out to CodePen and I
said, "Can we revisit this conversation?" They're just like, yeah, this is great
timing for us actually and so I kind of did a mini re-interview with them and
then it worked out and that was last August and I've been there ever since and
it's been fantastic. The people at CodePen are great and it's the most flexible
job I've had. I've been able to work on side projects without having to sign a
non-compete agreement because of the [crosstalk 00:19:28]-

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yes.

**Cassidy Williams:** ...it's so nice and just being able to work from home.
Sometimes I work from a library. I've worked at coworking spaces, I've worked at
cafes, having the ability to kind of move around, interact with people if I want
to and focus at home if I don't, it's been absolutely great for me to get work
done, but also to be able to have the time to do things where if for example, I
wanted to go to the gym, I could do it in the middle of the day and not have to
do it at the beginning or end of the day when it's crowded just because I work
from home, so it has that ability. It's been great so far.

**Kent C. Dodds:** That's awesome. It sounds like you were... especially earlier
on, you're kind of trying to figure out what you really wanted out of your
career and out of your job and sounds like the first two jobs were actually
pretty, you know, they worked out pretty well for you and then things changed
within the environments and you were mindful enough to recognize that this isn't
what I signed up for or not what I was hoping out of my job and then you made a
change. Amazon didn't quite turn out well for you and not to say that it's a bad
company like you said, but it just didn't work for you and then making this
change to CodePen has worked out really well and so like, is there anything that
you wish that you had done differently in the process of making these
transitions throughout these companies and like whether that be in your
personal... like with your personal time or with your career time that you feel
like could be particularly insightful to our listeners.

**Cassidy Williams:** With those first two jobs in New York, I should have said
no more. That was something that I've learned how to do and I'm still working on
learning how to do honestly, but in those times I was so stressed and burnt out
so often because that's just like I've figured this is what the job demands,
this is what you have to do to get ahead, but it's not worth it to get ahead if
you're burning out and not happy with how things are going and I was living in
New York City and I was so close to being able to just fly over to Europe
because it's cheap to fly from New York to Europe and I never did it because I
was working so much and just traveling so much that I never took advantage of
being in the location that I was, and granted I did go to Broadway shows and I
did eat the good food and stuff. I took advantage of some New York things, but
there are things that I wish I would have done and I didn't because I didn't say
no to things and I didn't establish a solid work life balance early on because I
thought this is what you had to do. To say no, I think is something that I'm
still working on but that's something that I definitely wish I did more.

**Kent C. Dodds:** No, that's super advice it makes me think of this book I
listened to recently called Boundaries. I'll add a link to that in the notes for
people, but it's fantastic book on basically what you described to being able to
know when to say no and how to say no and that kind of thing.

**Cassidy Williams:** Yeah, and then really just letting employers know like
what's important to you not just in work but outside of work too. I think that's
so important and again, that's kind of what I mentioned where I do all of these
hobbies and things outside of work now and I'm so much more active about them
that I can talk about them and work and employers know work isn't my life.
There're so many things in, and aspects to my life that are important to me and
are just as if not more important to me that I bring up intentionally so that
way they can see that I won't get rid of these important things for my job.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. I think having that... that's also kind of a boundaries
thing having that clear part of you where you say, this is actually a part of
me. When I joined PayPal I was doing podcasting, blogging, egghead videos and
stuff and it was a very like clear understanding when I started that I'd
continue to do those things and I think especially with the way that the
developer industry is right now, it's pretty like, you know, high demand for
developers and so we can make some of those, I guess demands is not quite the
right word I'm looking for but just-

**Cassidy Williams:** I know what you mean though likely, those caveats.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. Like this is an important part of my life. I want to go
rock climbing at two o'clock every day and so like that's understood and so you
show up a little bit earlier, you leave a little bit later, whatever it is so
that you can have the life that you want to have.

**Cassidy Williams:** Yeah and we're very lucky to have that. Developers are
definitely a privileged group, but we should take advantage of that and if you
want to go rock climbing, say that you're going to go rock climbing and as long
as the work gets done, that's what matters. It's not an industry that needs to
force you to say, no, your hours are nine to five. You need to wear a tie. You
need to do this or that.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, exactly and I think maybe that's a good takeaway for
people is we're in a pretty great situation where if that is your experience at
work, then maybe look outside of that and you'll find that there are lots of
companies that are willing to accommodate for your lifestyle and it's not just
because they're begging developers to work for them and that it's hard to find
people to hire, but it's because lots of these companies are finally recognize
that if we allow our employees to do the things that bring them happiness in
life and have the kind of life that they want, then they'll be better employees
for us.

**Cassidy Williams:** Right.

**Kent C. Dodds:** They'll do better work.

**Cassidy Williams:** Yeah, because if you're not stressed and you're happy
outside of work then you do better work in the workplace.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Absolutely.

**Cassidy Williams:** It's pretty straight forward.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. It's kind of like, now that it's been said, it's like,
why didn't we always know this?

**Cassidy Williams:** Right.

**Kent C. Dodds:** But there're still many companies that haven't caught up to
that vision and so I'm sure many people listening are like, yeah, if only I
could go riding horses in the afternoon or whatever. There are places where you
can have that kind of life and so with the last couple of minutes that we have.
I want to ask you a little bit about like how do... it sounds like you've kind
of figured out what it is that you want to do and some of the things you don't
want to do and you've been able to find a job that caters to those things. What
advice could you give to people to be able to determine what it is that they
want to do in life and then also be able to find the job that will allow them to
do that.

**Cassidy Williams:** I think as clickbaity as it sounds, you really have to
establish a personal brand not for other people just to see, but for yourself to
see and it's not about where do I want to get in my career? It's about what do I
like to do and what don't I like to do? You need to be able to define both and
it can be as simple as I don't want to do C programming, sure, but there's also
like, I don't want to work after a certain hour or I don't want to have a
commute that's this long or I don't want to have to be on call on weekends.
Things like that, that really establish things that you want to do and things
that you don't want to do and I emphasize the don't here because a lot of people
don't think about what they don't want to do. They often think about what they
do want to do and they'll do whatever they can to get to that point, but if you
establish both, what you do and what you don't want to do, that can help you
kind of define where you want to go and how you want to talk to employers about
your next role and for myself I kind of established that list. I listen to a
really great talk by Rebecca Garcia. I think her handle is if you could grow a
web on Twitter and she is an expert at all things personal branding and stuff
and she really emphasize this, know what you don't want to do thing, to me and
it kind of blew my mind at first and I was just like, no, this makes sense and
ever since then I've been trying to post on Twitter about my hobbies because if
people know I have hobbies, then they're not going to try and take them away
from me if I were to ever work with them. If I talk about these kind of nerdy
things, they'll know that I am not really into the type of like brogrammer type
culture. They know that I am a grade-A dork and I don't care, and so I really
just... that's kind of how I've put my internet presence out there. I try to
keep it clean because I want to be able to make things that are accessible for
everyone from kids to older folks, and I try to be very intentional with the, I
don't want to say the persona because it sounds fake, but who I actually am
authentically because I want employers to see that if they're hiring me, they're
not hiring just another programmer, they're hiring a person who is known for
this and who likes these certain things and who has this certain personality and
stuff and they're hiring Cassidy Williams, they're not hiring just another dev.
I think that that's important for everyone to... if you don't want to be active
on Twitter, that's fine, but it might take the form of blog posts, it might just
take the form of your job interviews, but really establishing who you are
authentically for yourself and for your future jobs I think is really important
for you to find that sweet spot in your career.

**Kent C. Dodds:** I think that's a great idea and like often when we say
personal brand, it's like people get all kind of cringey at that. I totally
agree. Like so long as... I think lots of the reason that people feel cringey
about it is, that it seems unauthentic, is that the word, disauthentic? I don't
know.

**Cassidy Williams:** Inauthentic.

**Kent C. Dodds:** It sounds not authentic but you can do it in an authentic way
and I feel like Cassidy, anybody who's followed you for any length of time knows
that you're a pretty authentic person-

**Cassidy Williams:** Thank you.

**Kent C. Dodds:** ...and so I think that building that personal brand is a
really great idea and in particular deciding what you do and don't want to do,
like for your Amazon job if... maybe if you had, and decided here the things I
do and don't want to do and if you'd establish that ahead of time, you may have
been able to ask the right questions based off of those things so that you would
have known ahead of time that you know what, this place isn't going to be for
me. Even though on my list of things is I want to have a nice title and good
pay. There's this list of things I don't want to do and Amazon is going to
either make me do those things or there are other things on my I want list that
I won't be able to have.

**Cassidy Williams:** Right. Don't sacrifice your don't want list for the do
want list. You got to have a good balance of both and Amazon might have had a
lot of things on my do want list, but they also had a lot of things on my don't
want list. You have to put emphasis on both of those things.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, I think that's great and also maybe making sure that
it's practical. Like, I do want to play video games all day and I do want to
have a million dollar salary, like you know-

**Cassidy Williams:** Don't we all.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, exactly, so making sure that's practical. I think just
as we ramp up here, here's our call to action for people. Take five minutes to
write down your do and don't list. The things that you do want to do and the
things you don't want to do and I think that maybe in your mind you're thinking
of that list, but actually writing it down will force you to think of things you
wouldn't alternatively think about. Write that down and then evaluate whether or
not your current place of employment or your current life reflects the things
that you do and don't want to do and if it doesn't or if it does that's great,
but if it doesn't, then try and see if there's a way that you can make changes
in your life, in your workplace or maybe change your workplace so that you can
have more of the things that you want and less of the things you don't want.

**Cassidy Williams:** Yeah, because once you have made these lists and seriously
writing them down helps so much, but once you have these lists, you can start to
come up with action items for yourself. Like, here are the things that I have to
do to make this happen and sometimes it'll mean being more active on Twitter.
Sometimes it'll just mean I need to talk to my manager. You never know, but it's
the first step to having that career and that work life balance... that whatever
that you want.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, exactly. Well, Cassidy it's been a pleasure chatting
with you. I'm sorry that our time is over so fast. Before we wrap things up,
just two things. First, is there anything else that we didn't talk about that
you'd like to chat about? And then second, how do people connect with you
online?

**Cassidy Williams:** Let me think. There's nothing that I have to plug right
now. I mean, say hi to me on Twitter. If you want to look me up. My username is
[cassidoo 00:33:21] on almost everything. There's a teenager that has it on
Instagram.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Curses.

**Cassidy Williams:** I tried, but anyway, everywhere else it's cassidoo. If you
look up Cassidy Williams, there's myself and a Scooby-Doo character and I am not
the Scooby-Doo character.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Great. Hey Cassidy, it was a total pleasure. I hope that
people got out of this what I am getting out of this, I'm going to be writing
down my list because I don't think I've ever actually written it down. It's a
good practice. Good luck everybody and we will chat with you all next time.

**Cassidy Williams:** Bye.
